{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl
{\f0 Calibri;}
{\f1 Arial;}
}
\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720

\fs28\b John Doe\b0\par
\fs22  Senior .NET Software Engineer\par
\par
1234 Evergreen Terrace \bullet\  Seattle, WA 98101 \bullet\  (555) 555-1234 \bullet\  john.doe@email.com \bullet\  www.github.com/johndoe\par
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/johndoe\par
\par

\b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par
Results-driven senior software engineer with 10+ years of experience designing, developing, and maintaining enterprise applications on the Microsoft .NET stack. Deep expertise in C#, .NET Framework, and .NET Core/.NET 6+, with strong skills in SQL Server, database design, and performance optimization. Experienced building RESTful APIs, background services, and integration layers for high-availability, data-intensive systems.\par
\par
Comfortable working across the full stack with a focus on backend services and data access, and with limited but practical front-end experience in React for modernizing legacy UI components. Known for writing clean, testable code, improving reliability and performance of critical systems, and mentoring junior developers on best practices in .NET and SQL. Adept at collaborating with cross-functional teams, participating in code reviews, and contributing to architectural discussions.\par
\par

\b CORE TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par
\b Languages & Frameworks:\b0\  C#, .NET Framework (4.x), .NET Core / .NET 5/6/7, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API, ASP.NET Core, LINQ, T-SQL, JavaScript / TypeScript (working knowledge), React (limited, maintenance- and feature-level proficiency), PowerShell\par
\b Databases:\b0\  Microsoft SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, database normalization, indexing strategies, query optimization, stored procedures, views, functions, execution plan analysis\par
\b Data Access & ORM:\b0\  Entity Framework / EF Core, Dapper, ADO.NET, repository and unit of work patterns, transaction handling\par
\b Cloud & DevOps:\b0\  Microsoft Azure (App Service, Azure Functions, Azure Storage, Azure SQL, Key Vault), basic CI/CD with Azure DevOps and GitHub Actions, build and release pipelines, configuration management\par
\b Architecture & Patterns:\b0\  N-tier architecture, RESTful services, microservice-oriented design (select components), domain-driven design (DDD) concepts, SOLID principles, dependency injection, CQRS (introductory usage), asynchronous programming (async/await, Tasks)\par
\b Testing & Quality:\b0\  xUnit / MSTest / NUnit, Moq, integration testing of APIs, test data management, static code analysis, code review best practices\par
\b Tools & Platforms:\b0\  Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), Git, Azure DevOps, Jira, Confluence, Postman, Fiddler\par
\b Front-End (Limited Experience):\b0\  React (functional components, hooks, basic state management, integrating with REST APIs), HTML5, CSS3, basic Bootstrap\par
\par

\b MICROSOFT CERTIFICATIONS\b0\par
- Microsoft Certified: Azure Fundamentals (AZ-900)\par
- Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA): Web Applications (legacy)\par
- Exam 483: Programming in C# (retired, completed)\par
\par

\b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par

\b Contoso Financial Systems, Inc.\b0\ – Seattle, WA\par
A financial services technology company providing loan origination and risk management platforms for regional banks.\par
\par
\b Staff Software Engineer (.NET)\b0\ \tab Jan 2023 – Present\par
\b Senior Software Engineer (.NET)\b0\ \tab Jul 2020 – Dec 2022 (Promotion)\par
\b Software Engineer II (.NET)\b0\ \tab Feb 2018 – Jun 2020 (Promotion)\par
\par
Key responsibilities and achievements across roles:\par
- Designed and implemented core backend services in C# and ASP.NET Core for the company’s flagship loan origination platform, supporting thousands of concurrent users and processing millions of transactions annually.\par
- Led the technical design and implementation of a modular service layer that separated business logic from UI and data access concerns, improving maintainability and easing the onboarding of new developers.\par
- Migrated several critical services from .NET Framework to .NET 6, reducing average API response times by 30–40\% and enabling containerization and improved deployment automation.\par
- Developed and maintained RESTful Web APIs used by internal React-based portals and external partner systems, focusing on clear resource modeling, consistent error handling, and strong input validation.\par
- Collaborated closely with DBAs to optimize high-traffic SQL Server queries and stored procedures; introduced appropriate indexing strategies and query rewrites that reduced timeouts and deadlocks in production.\par
- Implemented robust data access layers using Entity Framework Core and Dapper, including careful handling of transactions, connection lifetime, and batching to reduce round-trips to the database.\par
- Introduced standardized patterns for logging, exception handling, and configuration management across multiple services using .NET dependency injection, middleware, and cross-cutting concerns.\par
- Built scheduled background jobs using Azure Functions and .NET worker services to handle asynchronous tasks such as report generation, batch imports, and notification dispatching.\par
- Participated in architectural design sessions to break a legacy monolithic ASP.NET application into domain-focused services, helping define service boundaries, contracts, and integration patterns.\par
- Contributed to a gradual modernization of a legacy MVC application by exposing new APIs and implementing a small number of React-based UI components, enabling incremental replacement of server-rendered views.\par
- Worked with product owners and business analysts to translate complex financial rules into robust, testable domain logic, ensuring correctness through unit and integration tests.\par
- Reviewed code for maintainability, performance, and adherence to coding standards, providing detailed feedback and examples to help junior developers improve their craft.\par
- Provided informal mentorship to 3–5 junior and mid-level developers, pairing on troubleshooting sessions, helping them understand advanced C# features (generics, async/await, LINQ), and guiding them in reading and profiling SQL.\par
- Acted as a technical point of contact for one critical subsystem, handling production issue triage, root cause analysis, and coordination with operations to implement permanent fixes.\par
- Worked with the DevOps team to define build and release pipelines in Azure DevOps, including automated builds, unit test execution, and environment-specific configuration deployment.\par
\par
Selected accomplishments:\par
- Designed and delivered a new credit risk evaluation microservice in ASP.NET Core and SQL Server that integrated with third-party credit bureaus, cutting manual review time by 25\% and significantly reducing processing errors.\par
- Refactored a high-volume loan calculation engine from a tightly coupled set of stored procedures into a well-structured service layer with clear domain models, improving test coverage and simplifying future enhancements.\par
- Created a suite of performance and load tests that highlighted key bottlenecks in the order processing pipeline, leading to targeted optimizations and a 35\% reduction in end-to-end processing time.\par
\par

\b Fabrikam Health Solutions\b0\ – Portland, OR\par
Healthcare analytics company providing reporting platforms for clinics and hospitals.\par
\par
\b Software Engineer (.NET)\b0\ \tab Jul 2014 – Jan 2018\par
\par
- Developed back-end services and data access layers for a multi-tenant analytics portal using C#, ASP.NET MVC, and Web API, integrating with SQL Server data warehouses and reporting tools.\par
- Implemented ETL-related components in .NET to ingest data from CSV, SFTP, and third-party APIs, applying validation rules and loading cleaned data into staging and production SQL databases.\par
- Created stored procedures, functions, and views to support complex clinical and financial reporting needs; tuned problematic queries using execution plan analysis and targeted indexing.\par
- Built internal RESTful APIs to standardize data access patterns across different reporting modules, improving reusability and reducing duplication of business logic.\par
- Assisted in designing a role-based authorization model that integrated with ASP.NET Identity and custom claims, ensuring compliance with healthcare data privacy requirements.\par
- Introduced unit testing practices (MSTest and xUnit) for core modules that previously had no automated tests, significantly improving confidence during deployments.\par
- Collaborated with front-end developers by providing well-documented API endpoints and occasionally updating JavaScript and basic React components to fix bugs or support new data fields.\par
- Participated in on-call rotation for production support, diagnosing and resolving issues involving .NET services, SQL queries, and configuration-related runtime errors.\par
\par
Key achievements:\par
- Reduced average reporting query execution time by up to 60\% on key dashboards through indexing, partitioning, and query design improvements.\par
- Led a small initiative to standardize logging across multiple .NET services, enabling better diagnostics and faster resolution of production incidents.\par
\par

\b Northwind Technologies\b0\ – Boise, ID\par
Software consultancy building custom line-of-business applications.\par
\par
\b Junior Software Developer (.NET)\b0\ \tab Aug 2012 – Jun 2014\par
\par
- Contributed to various client projects built with C#, ASP.NET Web Forms and MVC, and SQL Server, focusing on bug fixes, small enhancements, and data access logic.\par
- Wrote and maintained T-SQL queries, views, and stored procedures for reporting and CRUD operations, following guidance from senior developers and DBAs.\par
- Implemented server-side validation, simple business rules, and basic UI enhancements using C#, ASP.NET controls, and JavaScript.\par
- Assisted in writing technical documentation for existing modules and deployment instructions for client IT teams.\par
- Participated in code reviews and internal training sessions on C#, .NET, and database best practices, building the foundation for more advanced backend work.\par
\par

\b EDUCATION\b0\par
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science\par
State University of Somewhere – Somewhere, USA\par
Graduated: May 2012\par
\par

\b SELECTED PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS\b0\par
\b Loan Origination Platform Modernization (Contoso Financial Systems)\b0\par
- Role: Senior/Staff Software Engineer\par
- Stack: C#, .NET 6, ASP.NET Core Web API, EF Core, SQL Server, Azure App Service, Azure Functions, React (limited front-end involvement)\par
- Modernized key parts of a legacy loan origination system by extracting business logic into modular ASP.NET Core services and introducing a well-defined API layer used by React-based front ends and partner systems.\par
- Replaced several large, monolithic stored procedures with more maintainable domain services, while still leveraging SQL for heavy aggregations where appropriate.\par
- Ensured backward compatibility during phased rollout by versioning APIs and maintaining dual write paths until all consuming services were migrated.\par
\par
\b Risk Analytics Data Pipeline (Contoso Financial Systems)\b0\par
- Role: Senior Software Engineer\par
- Designed and implemented a back-end data processing pipeline to ingest, normalize, and aggregate financial data from multiple external providers.\par
- Used .NET background services and Azure Functions to orchestrate ingestion and transformation, with SQL Server as the primary data store.\par
- Implemented comprehensive logging and error handling, with retry policies and dead-letter handling to ensure resilience.\par
\par
\b Healthcare Reporting Portal Enhancements (Fabrikam Health Solutions)\b0\par
- Role: Software Engineer\par
- Extended an existing reporting portal by implementing new back-end endpoints, complex reporting queries, and stored procedures to support additional clinics and new metrics.\par
- Collaborated with front-end developers, providing example API usage and adjusting payloads to support evolving UI requirements.\par
\par

\b MENTORSHIP & COLLABORATION\b0\par
- Mentored junior developers by pairing on features and defects, reviewing pull requests with detailed feedback, and sharing practical examples of applying SOLID principles and clean code practices in .NET.\par
- Helped newer team members understand performance implications of ORM usage versus hand-written SQL, and guided them in reading SQL execution plans and using indexes effectively.\par
- Contributed to internal knowledge base pages on topics such as asynchronous programming in C#, EF Core best practices, and common performance pitfalls in SQL Server.\par
- Occasionally facilitated brief technical sessions and brown-bag talks on .NET updates, useful Visual Studio features, and debugging techniques.\par
\par

\b ADDITIONAL INFORMATION\b0\par
- Comfortable working in Agile/Scrum environments, participating in sprint planning, backlog refinement, and retrospectives.\par
- Strong focus on reliability and maintainability over flashy features; emphasizes clear domain models, robust error handling, and appropriate logging.\par
- Enjoys troubleshooting complex production issues that require coordinating knowledge of .NET internals, SQL Server behavior, and infrastructure configuration.\par
- U.S. citizen; open to hybrid or remote-friendly roles.\par
\par
}